have you ever watched a video back of
yourself and you caught yourself saying
crutch words like uh um a so any of
these words constantly in between
sentences and it was cringy to watch you
were thinking wow I never knew I said
these types of words this often in
between sentences don't worry you are
not the only one in fact this is one of
the most common issues people have with
public speaking and today I'm going to
talk about why we incorporate these
crutch words into our speech and how to
fix this issue how to remove these words
from our speech because when we remove
the O and the Oz it is a more enjoyable
listening experience for the audience
hey everyone my name is Wade Patterson
my YouTube channel is all about
impactful communication I have a lot of
videos about Toast Masters I have a lot
of videos about public speaking even
some videos about video and social media
and podcast
so if you want to be a better
Communicator consider subscribing to my
channel and I will make it my mission to
continue producing videos that help you
accomplish that goal before we take on
the task of removing crutch words such
as um or a from our speech it's
important to know why we say these words
in the first place and the reason is it
is very difficult and it almost feels
unnatural to allow pauses to occur
between sentences when we speak in front
of an audience often our nerves get
going and we are concerned about how we
sound and and how the delivery is and
knowing that there is silence between
sentences feels uncomfortable it is a
very difficult thing to achieve a
comfortable silence instead we rush to
fill in that Silence with words such as
um or a so that we think that there's no
Gap that we're Contin ually speaking but
this can be very distracting for an
audience perhaps you've watched a
speaker and you've noticed somebody who
says um a lot in between sentences after
a while um is the only word we hear as
the audience because it's used so
frequently and it distracts and it takes
away from the message that the speaker
is trying to deliver the first way you
can eliminate these types of words from
your speech is to know what your crutch
words are because everybody is a little
bit different everyone has Tendencies to
certain types of words and if you're not
aware of what that word is for you or
combination of words it's difficult to
eliminate the problem within the
Toastmasters program there is a role at
every meeting a club member is assigned
to take on the a counter position and
what the a counter is is an individual
who listens to everyone speaking
throughout the meeting and make makes
notes every time they hear one of these
crutch words a um so but there's a
number of them that people add
unnecessarily into their speeches and
the a counter is aiming to write have a
brief report that he or she will deliver
at the end of the meeting to tell each
individual hey Wade in your speaking
opportunity you said the word um 23
times wow I guess that's my crutch word
is the information I would get as the
Toastmasters member and I would know to
keep that in mind for future speeches
and what starts to happen when you know
which word is your crutch word as you're
speaking at Future opportunities you
will catch yourself you'll say so I went
to the store and um and it will trigger
and you'll say oh I'm not supposed to
say that and the more that you speak in
the future and the more practice that
you use of just allowing that silence
for those specific words it's really
going to help you eliminate them from
your speech now I realize that not
everyone watching this video is a toast
Master's member which by the way I
totally recommend Toast Masters it's an
amazing program but even if you're not a
Toast Masters member there are still
ways you can catch or identify your
crutch words the first is by recording
yourself speaking turn on a camera even
if it's on your phone and practice a
speech maybe it's a speech that you're
giving for a wedding that's coming up
that's a common life event that people
give speeches for and deliver the speech
and then watch it back on video and you
may be surprised you may not even notice
certain words that you're saying but
when you watch yourself you're much more
observant and you can focus on it and
perhaps it's the word like like like
like before every sentence that you're
saying now you know that is your crutch
word so as you continue to practice that
speech for the speaking opportunity at
the wedding you will know every time you
hear yourself say the word like you'll
cringe a little bit and then the next
time you'll remove it even that many
more times and it will continually get
better the more that you practice
another way you can accomplish this is
by having a family member or a friend
you trust to give you realistic
constructive feedback to listen
carefully the next time you speak and
almost in their own way take on that a
counter rule casually just as you
deliver the speech in front of him or
her and they can write down some of
those words that they heard and they may
actually be able to give you more
feedback on your speech in general of
ways that you can improve slightly I
mentioned at the top of this video that
one of the reasons we use crutch words
is because it's really hard and it feels
uncomfortable to have that silence but
my next tip in order to eliminate aw or
ums out of your speech is to understand
that the silence doesn't sound awkward
for the audience it it actually sounds
polished and it's enjoyable to listen
to right now the last 10 seconds how
I've been talking I've purposefully
tried to incorporate longer pauses in
between my sentences and it might seem a
little bit weird but it's probably not
that strange to listen to because I'm
not filling in those silence pieces with
ums a and all of these crutch words if I
was it's a much less enjoyable listening
experience as an example um so uh this
video um it's really focused
on um
incorporating uh the different elements
of um all of those crutch words they're
uncomfortable to listen to instead by
having silence allowing yourself to
think it's going to be a much more
enjoyable experience for the audience a
final tip I have for eliminating crutch
words from your speech is to slow down
your pace one reason people incorporate
these ums or a is because they are
speaking so fast and their brain is
racing to keep up with them to think of
the next sentence they want to say and
as their brain is re-calibrating and
trying to think of that next information
their mouth is moving so fast that they
fill in those little breaks in time with
ums and a or s's or butts or any of
these crutch words and by doing so again
it's going to be distracting for the
audience slow down sometimes it's nice
for the audience to be able to to catch
their breath and really soak in what it
is that you're saying there is nothing
wrong about slowing down your speech and
one of the things that you can use as a
strategy is to actually change the pace
so if you're somebody who speaks very
fast slowing it down is going to be an
enjoyable experience for the audience
for example if you're talking about a
vacation that your family was going on
and you were going to be late and you
had to go catch their flight and you're
running toward the gate and you thought
that the flight might take off and then
you ran there and you
arrived but you would miss the flight
you were there too
late but through this type of story you
realize that the changing of pace of the
way you talk is really engaging to the
audience and by
clearing out those crotch words those
A's those ums it's an enjoyable
experience for the people who are
listening to the story and they are
going to engage that much more
eliminating ums and aw from my speech
has been a long journey I've worked very
hard on it my goal is that through
videos like this there are very few
times that you're able to catch me
saying one of these words they do happen
from time to time nobody is perfect but
I work really hard when speak speaking
in front of a group of people to
eliminate these words from my speech and
what I've been told is that it is much
more enjoyable when I first joined Toast
Masters I would use many different
crutch words and over the years I've
gotten to the point through practice
through a lot of practice of getting to
that point where I've removed many of
those words from my speech but hey I
would love it in the comments if there's
something that I say too often or you
notice a crutch word that maybe I'm not
familiar with let me know down there in
the comments I do catch it from time to
time when I'm editing these videos I
think oh I say this phrase way too often
and it bothers me but again that is an
opportunity for us to work on our own
speeches and for yourself step number
one is identifying what it is that you
say as those crutch words or those
phrases that you say too often
acknowledge it and then practice and by
that combination and by removing the Oz
and comes from your speech you are going
to be at a level that is much higher
than the average public speaker because
many people struggle with this and it is
a great skill to be able to remove
crutch words when speaking I hope this
video brought you a ton of value if it
did please subscribe to my channel I'd
really appreciate it my goal is to
continue producing this type of video
content in order to help you become a
more impactful Communicator thanks again
for watching and I'll catch you on the
next one